# penguins-addons

A theme for eggs, let you to customize it and save your time.

An eggs theme is simply an organized set of files and directories, YAML being the most widely used.

```educaandos``` is the first example of an external eggs theme available, others themes are: ```neon```, ```telos```, ```ufficiozero``` and ```waydroid``` imported from the previous themes included in eggs before.

# Themes

You can customize the boot of live images made with eggs using **themes**.

A **theme** consists of a simple folder under addons, called with the name of 
vendor (in the example: blissos), that includes:

```
educaandos/
    theme
        applications
        artwork
        calamares
            branding
            modules
        livecd
```

## applications
Just a desktop link, it will be copied to ```/usr/share/applications/``` and on the Desktop.

## artwork
The icon for your desktop link, will be copied on ```/usr/share/icons/```

## calamares
Contain the calamares customizations and it's by far the most important part of the theme.

Each sample configuration file contains documentation on the options it contains.

The configuration of calamares is specified in yaml files and contains within it documentation for the various options. The main calamares ```settings.conf``` file is automatically created by eggs, only partition, locale and users are used here.

Of course, the reference information is in the [calamares repository](https://github.com/calamares/calamares/) and on the [calamares.io](https://github.com/calamares/calamares/wiki/Deploy-Configuration) website


### branding
```branding.desc``` file is generated by eggs, please refer to [branding](https://github.com/calamares/calamares/blob/calamares/src/branding/default/branding.desc) for more information 


### modules
* locale.yml
* partitions.yml
* users.yml

### locale.yml
Not used yet.

### partitions.yml
Not used yet.

### users.yml
In EducaAndOS to ensure administration capability for our user, we need a groups configuration specified in users.yml. Note: If it is not specified as thema educaandos, the configuration of groups in which the live user and the installed system user will be part, will not have the possibility of administration.


## livecd
Take cure of the apparence of your live.

# Usage

```
sudo eggs produce --fast --theme ../path/to/theme
```

## example

clone this repository:

```
git clone https://github.com/pieroproietti/penguins-addons
```

And produce your customized live:

```
sudo eggs produce --fast  --theme ../penguins-addons/educaandos-plus
```

# Further plans

A theme is a type of addons for eggs. There are other addons as well: ```adapt``` that provides a link to resize the window on a virtual machine, ```pve``` that shows on the desktop the link to the local Proxmox VE server, ```rsupport```, etc.

I hope with time -including through collaborations - to add more possibilities to both ```addons``` and ```themes```. You don't necessarily have to be a developer to create a theme, in fact graphic designers, translators, textbook writers or proofreaders are welcome.

You can request [me](https://t.me/penguins_eggs) to be added as a collaborator to this repository and thus participate in the development. 